# 3.2.3.2 Prepare source file for production employees

Prepare your _**prod-employees**_ source file.  This is a [csv](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated\_values) file for every production employee that will have initial access to your live production environment.  It is our recommendation that you only create a single National System Administrator, and a single Local System Administrator user for every office that they will be required to create users for. &#x20;

In production, it is these users who should login to the production server and use the Team section and the User Management functions to create users using the live application.&#x20;

You can import and create csv files in Excel or Google Drive. &#x20;

All of these users will be able to sign in to OpenCRVS with the **an automatically generated, strong password** which we be created and displayed to you **just once** when running the **Import set up files** commands in section [**3.2.5**](../3.2.5-generate-factory-reset-reference-data-backups.md).   All of these users will be required to use a **unique mobile phone number that receives SMS 2FA codes** when logging in.

These users will be created in a "**pending**" state and required to change their password and set up reset authentication credentials security questions when logging in for the first time.

Using our Farajaland [prod-employees.csv](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-farajaland/blob/master/src/features/employees/source/prod-employees.csv) file as an example, you can create your live system administrators.  Our prod-employees.csv file looks like this:

| facilityId               | environment | username          | givenNames | familyName | gender | role                    | type | mobile     | email         | signature |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | ----------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------ | ----------------------- | ---- | ---------- | ------------- | --------- |
| CRVS\_OFFICE\_2OKicPQMNI | production  | jonathan.campbell | Jonathan   | Campbell   | male   | NATIONAL\_SYSTEM\_ADMIN |      | 0921111111 | test@test.org |           |

{% hint style="info" %}
**Notice that our example contains only one National System Administrator.**  You do not necessarily need any more than this one user, as the application can be used to make more system administrators (LOCAL or NATIONAL).
{% endhint %}

{% hint style="info" %}
**Notice that the format is identical to the csv format for test-employees**.  The only difference is **** the **environment** column must be set to "**production**" for live, production users.  &#x20;
{% endhint %}
