# 3.2.3.1 Prepare source file for test employees

Prepare your _**test-employees**_ source file.  This is a [csv](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comma-separated\_values) file for every test employee you can use during configuration to quality assure your OpenCRVS instance.  You can import and create csv files in Excel or Google Drive. &#x20;

These users will be created in an "**active**" state and will not be required to change their password nor be required to set up reset authentication credentials security questions when logging in.

All of these users will be able to sign in to OpenCRVS with the **same test password** which we will set later when running the **Import set up files** commands in section [**3.2.5**](../3.2.5-generate-factory-reset-reference-data-backups.md).   All of these users will be able to submit a test **2FA code of six zeros: "000000"** when logging in.

Using our Farajaland [test-employees.csv](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-farajaland/blob/master/src/features/employees/source/test-employees.csv) file as an example, you can create employees with all possible roles to test your OpenCRVS instance.  Our test-employees.csv file looks like this:

| facilityId               | environment | username       | givenNames | familyName | gender | role                | type           | mobile     | email         | signature                            |
| ------------------------ | ----------- | -------------- | ---------- | ---------- | ------ | ------------------- | -------------- | ---------- | ------------- | ------------------------------------ |
| CRVS\_OFFICE\_JWMRGwDBXK | development | kalusha.bwalya | Kalusha    | Bwalya     | male   | FIELD\_AGENT        | SOCIAL\_WORKER | 0911111111 | test@test.org |                                      |
| CRVS\_OFFICE\_JWMRGwDBXK | development | felix.katongo  | Felix      | Katongo    | male   | REGISTRATION\_AGENT |                | 0922222222 | test@test.org |                                      |
| CRVS\_OFFICE\_JWMRGwDBXK | development | kennedy.mweene | Kennedy    | Mweene     | male   | LOCAL\_REGISTRAR    |                | 0933333333 | test@test.org | data:image/png;base64,iVBORw0KGgo... |

{% hint style="danger" %}
Do not change or re-format the header row as the code requires these names to be precise in order to parse the csv.  Do not use commas in any cell and do not have any empty rows.
{% endhint %}

* Each row will represent a unique "user" in your country.
* Do not change or re-format the header row as the code requires these names to precise in order to parse the csv.  **All data in the csv must contain no commas.**
* The **facilityId** column is the identifier for the civil registration office where the user will be located.  Notice that the format is "CRVS\_OFFICE\_\<office **statisticalID**>".  All these users will be created in Ibombo District Office
* The **environment** column must be set to "**development**" for test users. &#x20;
* The **username** column must be a unique username that the user will use to authenticate with when logging in.
* The **givenNames** column must be the users' first names separated by using a space. &#x20;
* The **familyName** column must be the users' first names separated by using a space.&#x20;
* The **gender** column can be set or left blank.&#x20;

The **role** column must be set to one of the following supported roles only:&#x20;

* FIELD\_AGENT
* REGISTRATION\_AGENT
* LOCAL\_REGISTRAR
* LOCAL\_SYSTEM\_ADMIN
* NATIONAL\_SYSTEM\_ADMIN
* NATIONAL\_REGISTRAR
* PERFORMANCE\_MANAGEMENT

The **type** column can be left blank with the exception of FIELD\_AGENT role.  For FIELD\_AGENT, set the type to be **either blank or**:

* LOCAL\_LEADER
* SOCIAL\_WORKER
* HEALTHCARE\_WORKER
* POLICE\_OFFICER

The **mobile** column must contain a mobile number **without** your country code.  Ensure that the mobile number validates using whatever phone number regular expression that you intend to use in section [**3.2.9 Set up initialisation settings**.](../3.2.8-set-up-initialisation-settings.md)

* The **email** column must contain a valid email address
* The **signature** column can be left blank for all users with the exception of a **LOCAL\_REGISTRAR** _or a_ **NATIONAL\_REGISTRAR**.  For the registrar users you must insert a base64 converted image string of a transparent PNG file of the registrar's signature which will appear on any certificates that they register.  \
  \
  [This website](http://www.onlinesignaturecreator.com/) can be used to create a transparent PNG if you do not have access to any other image editing software.  There are many free websites you can find to convert a PNG image file to base64 text, such as [this one](https://www.base64-image.de/).

