# 3.2.5 Import set up files

Now that your source files are set up you are ready to import them into OpenCRVS.  To do this, OpenCRVS Core must be running, but it is not necessary for your country configuration server to be running.

Ensure that OpenCRVS Core is running following the steps in **3.1.3 Starting and stopping OpenCRVS.**

Open a new Terminal window when OpenCRVS Core is running and cd inside your country configuration repo directory.  E.G:

`cd opencrvs-farajaland`

To clear any existing data, such as our Farajaland default data run this command inside the country configuration repo directory:

&#x20;`yarn db:clear:all`&#x20;

To reset OpenHIM to factory default, quit and restart OpenCRVS core following the steps in **3.1.3 Starting and stopping OpenCRVS.**

When OpenHIM is running, login [here](http://localhost:8888) - The default username is **root@openhim.org** and the default password is: **openhim-password**&#x20;

When running OpenCRVS locally, login for the first time will fail an SSL certificate security check as we are using self signed certs locally of course, follow the instructions in the error message in Chrome to accept the cert and proceed unsafe.  You will see some JSON like this:

1. Once logged in click Export/Import then select the core file [`infrastructure/openhim-base-config.json`](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/blob/master/infrastructure/openhim-base-config.json) or drag and drop the file into the import box. A modal will open displaying the channels that will be imported. These are the routing configs for OpenCRVS in OpenHIM. Click 'Import changes'.
2. Click Channels and check all have loaded successfully. All will show a green "Enabled" message with the exception of an orange "Disabled" message for Hearth passthrough.
3. To populate reference data for your country requirements, by default, you run the `yarn db:populate` command to do this when OpenCRVS Core is running . This script's intention is to create active users in the system and generate passwords for them, populate the database with FHIR jurisdictions, facilities, practitioners and any other reference data you need.

You must add 2 parameters:

a) The password you wish to set for your test employees in local development only. b) An environment code "DEV" or "PRODUCTION".

E.G.:

`yarn db:populate test DEV`

If you pass the environment code "DEV", your test password will be the same for all users. This is to make it easier for you to demo OpenCRVS.

**Test users must NEVER be installed on production as they all use the same password. You will be warned about this.**

If you pass the environment code "PRODUCTION", your test password will be ignored. Instead we create strong passwords for each user using [niceware](https://github.com/diracdeltas/niceware) and save the usernames and passwords along with contact details for the users in a file: "login-details.json" in this [folder](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-farajaland/master/src/features/employees/generated). You can then contact the users and tell them their production password which they can change to something else strong and memorable to them when they login - WARNING: The niceware wordlist has not been rigorously checked for offensive words. Use at your own risk. You may need to login as one of these users and change a password if it is deemed offensive. This approach makes it easy to set up active employees initially in bulk for a production deployment without users having to verify their account. Alternatively a national system administrator can always use OpenCRVS' UI to create new users in the "Team" configuration at any time follwoing the standard process.

The populate script is only run once when creating your factory reset backups. **The populate script is never used live in production, only when generating reference data factory reset backups locally for production use.**

1. Once you are fully populateed, before you login and create registrations and an audit trail, run `yarn db:backup:create` to create new factory reset zips for your future use. Commit everything to a new private repo for your country. Github actions will automatically restore from these backups when setting the `--clear-data` & `--restore-metadata` props in the server deployment commands in OpenCRVS core. The script `yarn db:backup:restore` can be used to restore from existing zips and is the same script that is used by Github actions.
