# v1.0.1 to v1.1.0 Migration notes

We have worked hard to ensure that migrating from v1.0 to v1.1 is as easy as possible.

### Step 1: Upgrade your code

1. Navigate to your opencrvs-core directory, checkout the **release-v1.1.0** or **master** branch and pull latest changes.  Yarn install any dependency upgrades:

`cd <path on your environment>/opencrvs-core`

`git fetch`

`git checkout release-v1.1.0`&#x20;

_or (until January 2023 when master will evolve again):_ `git checkout master`

`git pull`

`yarn --force`

2\. You will now have the release code.  Your next step is to rebase any changes you need from the country configuration repository fork.

3\. Navigate to your forked country configuration repo

`cd <path on your environment>/opencrvs-<your country>`

4\. Ensure that the branches you have set up are ready for rebasing according to the new forking instructions [here](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.1-fork-your-own-country-configuration-repository.md).  Specifically from [step 9 to 17](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.1-fork-your-own-country-configuration-repository.md).

{% hint style="info" %}
If you have made no customisations to the Farajaland country configuration, other than updating your csv files for [administrative divisions](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.2-set-up-administrative-address-divisions/), [offices and health facilities](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.4-set-up-employees-for-testing-or-production/3.2.3.2-prepare-source-file-for-production-employees.md), [employees](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.4-set-up-employees-for-testing-or-production/) and created new [backups](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.6-create-factory-reset-backups-for-development.md), the rebase process should be easy.  If you have customised any routes or developed new API integrations, you may need to be a bit more careful with merging conflicts.
{% endhint %}

5\. Fetch all our latest branches as [**step 17 will have added Farajaland as a remote**](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.1-fork-your-own-country-configuration-repository.md):

`git fetch --all`

6\. Checkout your **master-\<your country code>** branch, and rebase from our release. **(You must be familiar with the concept of** [**Git rebase**](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/rewriting-history/git-rebase)**)**.  Yarn install any dependency upgrades. &#x20;

{% hint style="warning" %}
Rebase note: Prioritise your current backup zip files over our incoming Farajaland backups otherwise you will need to [regenerate your backups](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.6-create-factory-reset-backups-for-development.md) after the rebase process ends.  Prioritise incoming changes for any other conflicts and refactor your code if you have developed your own customisations.
{% endhint %}

`git checkout master-<your country alpha3 code>`&#x20;

`git rebase farajaland/release-v1.1.0`

`yarn install`

7\. _(Optional)_ Checkout and rebase your **master-\<your country code>** branch onto any downstream Gitflow branches that are appropriate to you such as **develop-\<your country code>** . **Then checkout back to your master-\<your country code> branch before proceeding!**
