---
description: OpenCRVS v1.2.0 is a stable release of OpenCRVS.
---

# v1.2.0: Release notes

The [v1.2.0](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/releases/tag/v1.2.0) release includes some exciting new functionality and architectural improvements.

Upgrading from v1.1.0 to v1.2.0 requires the upgrade [Migration Notes](v1.1.-to-v1.2.-migration-notes.md) to be followed precisely.&#x20;

The core release is to be used in conjunction with a forked country configuration release [v1.2.0](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-farajaland/releases/tag/v1.2.0)



### Documentation updates

The following pages in our documentation have been updated due to the requirements of the new features.

The entire [Interoperability](../../technology/interoperability/) section.

New test [usernames](../../setup/3.-installation/3.1-set-up-a-development-environment/3.1.4-log-in-to-opencrvs-locally.md) following the format: _inital.surname_

New [Performance](../../technology/architecture/performance-tests.md) test reports

Setup [administrative divisions and statistics](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.2-set-up-administrative-address-divisions/) using the Humdata standard

New [commands for importing](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.5-import-set-up-files.md) the set up files

New [commands for creating factory reset zips](../../setup/3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.6-create-factory-reset-reference-data-backups.md)

Clearer instructions throughout the [set-up a server hosted environment section](../../setup/3.-installation/3.3-set-up-a-server-hosted-environment/)

New subdomains required for Minio in [DNS](../../setup/3.-installation/3.3-set-up-a-server-hosted-environment/3.3.5-setup-dns-a-records.md) settings

Configuring any [comms gateway](../../setup/3.-installation/3.3-set-up-a-server-hosted-environment/3.3.3-create-docker-secrets-and-provision-an-sms-gateway.md), not just an SMS gateway, e.g. WhatsApp

Clearer instructions for [deploying](../../setup/3.-installation/3.3-set-up-a-server-hosted-environment/3.3.6-deploy-automated-and-manual.md) either automated or manual with Minio secrets added

Clearer instructions for [backing](../../setup/3.-installation/3.3-set-up-a-server-hosted-environment/3.3.7-automated-and-manual-backup-and-manual-restore.md) up and restoring OpenCRVS data

[Clearing a server to factory defaults](../../setup/3.-installation/3.3-set-up-a-server-hosted-environment/3.3.8-clearing-and-restoring-a-server-to-factory-reset-data.md)



### Major Features

The following explains in more detail each major feature that has been included in this release.



**Vital Statistics Exports**

Composing the "VS" in OpenCRVS, Vital statistics constitute the collection of statistics on vital events pertaining to the population, including relevant characteristics of the events themselves and also of the persons concerned.  They are critical for a wide range of government operations, e.g. population register, national identification system, and other administrative registers, and for commercial enterprises (e.g. life insurance and marketing of products).

\
Our VS Export feature outputs a sharable, yearly report of registration data without Personally Identifiable Information (PII) for consumption by statisticians in programs such as [RStudio (Posit)](https://posit.co/).

**User Audit**

In OpenCRVS v1.0 we introduced Record Audit, displaying the history of every action that has taken place on a registration. In this release we expand OpenCRVS' audit capability to allow a system administrator to view every action performed by a single staff member in an easy to consume display.

**Advanced Search**

Utilising the full power of our [ElasticSearch](https://www.elastic.co/) engine, registrars can now perform advanced searches; for example, registrars can search all registrations made in a configurable range of districts or states, between date ranges for a given name or gender and much more!  View any record, at any time, without needing to perform an action then bookmark your searches. This feature is fully audited and additionally exposed in an API integration!

**Integrations**

It is now possible for a system administrator to configure OpenCRVS API integrations for external systems, and refresh credentials, within the OpenCRVS user interface.  It is easy to set up API access to Advanced Search, FHIR standard Health notifications, Webhooks or National ID systems, including [MOSIP](https://mosip.io/).  We have worked hard with the MOSIP team to ensure that birth and death events seamlessly orchestrate with MOSIP’s National ID generation and expiration functionality.

**Configurable Administrative Levels**

No matter how many administrative divisions are relevant for your country, you can now import as many as you like using [Humdata](https://data.humdata.org/) standards and the OpenCRVS address structure will automatically compensate.  Create OpenCRVS offices in a deeply nested rural parish or county, or alternatively in an urban city ward.  A FHIR standard API is open for public consumption by other systems to make interoperability for location relevant data easy.

**Introducing** [**Minio**](https://min.io/) **in OpenCRVS: An AWS S3 compatible OpenSource and locally hosted** [**Object Store**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object\_storage)****

To make best use of server resources and keep OpenCRVS hosting costs down, application attachments are now saved in [Minio](https://min.io/), a dedicated object storage system with its own admin interface.  Minio provisions automatically for you on your locally hosted OpenCRVS infrastructure.  Application attachments now have their own unique URL so they can be cached, and can be externally managed away from the rest of the OpenCRVS document data. Minio is compatible with [Amazon S3](https://min.io/product/s3-compatibility) giving you the flexibility to adapt and use cloud object storage if you wish.

**New custom Select field added in Form Config**

It is now possble to add a select input type in form config using a pre-populated list of options sucah as the administartive divisions or facilities or upload a new CSV of options. &#x20;

### **Supplied migration scripts to resolve breaking changes in core**

* An automatic migration allows the system administrator to create a custom select based on imported Health Facilities in Form Configuration
* An automatic migration migrates any existing system clients created before v1.2.\* to still function after the major changes to the Interoperability UI.
* An automatic migration correctly marks which user started an application which was later rejected to address a bug in our Performance section.
* An automatic migration moves all supporting document attachments from being stored as base64 in Mongo DB to our new [Minio](https://min.io/) Object Storage system, available to login at https://minio-console.\<your-domain>
* An automatic migration prepares legacy data to appear in our new "Registration Rates" feature in  our Performance section.
* An automatic migration fixes a bug where supporting document attachments went missing in the UI if a record was corrected.  This restores any affected documents.
* An automatic migration configures OpenHIM to delete any Channel log older than 30 days to save diskspace.

### Breaking changes - core

{% hint style="info" %}
Follow the[ Migration Notes ](v1.1.-to-v1.2.-migration-notes.md)to migrate between versions of core
{% endhint %}

* Ansible playbooks have been updated to support VS Export and the nw Object Store - Mino
* Dockker Compose files have been updated to support the new version of Traefik

### Breaking changes - country configuration

* The country confguration repository opencrvs-farajaland has been entirely refactored.  Please contact us at [team@opencrvs.org](mailto:team@opencrvs.org) if you need any help rebasing changes in this repository.
* We have removed some legacy endpoints and changed the directory structure to make the repository easier to understand.
* We have entirely changed the configuration import process to add functionality relevant to [Humdata](https://data.humdata.org/) standardisation
* We have added scripts to **validate all CSV files** to make it much easer to configure OpenCRVS

### **The following content keys have been added that require translation**

```
// Some code
```

### Major dependency upgrades

Create React App has been replaced by [Vite](https://vitejs.dev/)!  This drastically improves startup and build time and improves the configurability of the React application.

[Traefik](https://traefik.io/) has been upgraded to v2.8

### **Can you help me migrate my previous OpenCRVS version?**

If you are migrating from an earlier version and if you are working on behalf of a government that is considering implementing OpenCRVS, we can help you to upgrade.

Please contact us at [team@opencrvs.org](mailto:team@opencrvs.org)

\
