# v1.2.0-beta: Release notes

We are pleased to announce the Beta pre-release of OpenCRVS v1.2! This new release of OpenCRVS includes some major architectural upgrades and exciting new features.

{% hint style="warning" %}
**OpenCRVS v1.2.0** is a minor release currently in **beta**.  The beta release should not be used in production - use it at your own risk.  It is released to early adopters for feedback. If you notice any issue, please let us know in [Github](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/discussions). To understand the quality assurance process related to a beta version, read our [releasing guide](./).  The production ready, **OpenCRVS v1.2.0 (stable)** be released at the end of **January 2023**.  The stable release will be maintained for 6 months by the core development team.&#x20;
{% endhint %}

****

The v1.2.0 release includes some exciting new functionality and architectural improvements.

Upgrading from v1.1.0 to v1.2.0 requires the upgrade Migration Notes to be followed precisely.&#x20;

The core release is to be used in conjunction with a forked country configuration release v1.2.0-beta&#x20;



### Documentation & migration notes

The documentation and migration notes for this release are in production and will be published gradually between now and the end of **January 2023**. &#x20;



### Major Features

The following explains in more detail each major feature that has been included in this release.



**Vital Statistics Exports**

Composing the "VS" in OpenCRVS, Vital statistics constitute the collection of statistics on vital events pertaining to the population, including relevant characteristics of the events themselves and also of the persons concerned.  They are critical for a wide range of government operations, e.g. population register, national identification system, and other administrative registers, and for commercial enterprises (e.g. life insurance and marketing of products).

\
Our VS Export feature outputs a sharable, yearly report of registration data without Personally Identifiable Information (PII) for consumption by statisticians in programs such as [RStudio (Posit)](https://posit.co/).



**User Audit**

In OpenCRVS v1.0 we introduced Record Audit, displaying the history of every action that has taken place on a registration. In this release we expand OpenCRVS' audit capability to allow a system administrator to view every action performed by a single staff member in an easy to consume display.



**Advanced Search**

Utilising the full power of our [ElasticSearch](https://www.elastic.co/) engine, registrars can now perform advanced searches; for example, registrars can search all registrations made in a configurable range of districts or states, between date ranges for a given name or gender and much more!  View any record, at any time, without needing to perform an action then bookmark your searches. This feature is fully audited and additionally exposed in an API integration!



**Integrations**

It is now possible for a system administrator to configure OpenCRVS API integrations for external systems, and refresh credentials, within the OpenCRVS user interface.  It is easy to set up API access to Advanced Search, FHIR standard Health notifications, Webhooks or National ID systems, including [MOSIP](https://mosip.io/).  We have worked hard with the MOSIP team to ensure that birth and death events seamlessly orchestrate with MOSIP’s National ID generation and expiration functionality.



**Configurable Administrative Levels**

No matter how many administrative divisions are relevant for your country, you can now import as many as you like using [Humdata](https://data.humdata.org/) standards and the OpenCRVS address structure will automatically compensate.  Create OpenCRVS offices in a deeply nested rural parish or county, or alternatively in an urban city ward.  A FHIR standard API is open for public consumption by other systems to make interoperability for location relevant data easy.



**Introducing** [**Minio**](https://min.io/) **in OpenCRVS: An AWS S3 compatible OpenSource and locally hosted** [**Object Store**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object\_storage)****

To make best use of server resources and keep OpenCRVS hosting costs down, application attachments are now saved in [Minio](https://min.io/), a dedicated object storage system with its own admin interface.  Minio provisions automatically for you on your locally hosted OpenCRVS infrastructure.  Application attachments now have their own unique URL so they can be cached, and can be externally managed away from the rest of the OpenCRVS document data. Minio is compatible with [Amazon S3](https://min.io/product/s3-compatibility) giving you the flexibility to adapt and use cloud object storage if you wish.



**When can I get OpenCRVS v1.2!**

Be one of the first to try out these new features!  Our Beta release has been through our [automated quality gate procedures](https://documentation.opencrvs.org/general/releases).  We would really appreciate early adopters and to be [notified](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-core/discussions) of any bugs you may encounter.  We are now commencing our stable release user acceptance testing process. A stable version is planned for full public release on January 31st 2023.



**Can you help me upgrade my previous OpenCRVS version?**

If you are migrating from an earlier version and if you are working on behalf of a government that is considering implementing OpenCRVS, we can help you to upgrade when v1.2.0-stable is released.  Watch this space!

Please contact us at [team@opencrvs.org](mailto:team@opencrvs.org)

\
