# 4.4 Configure a certificate template

### Before your start

* You can you use any paper size is possible. However we recommend A5.
* We only support the font [Noto Sans](https://fonts.google.com/noto/specimen/Noto+Sans) currently.
* Only one digital signature is currently supported.
* You can create space for multiple wet signatures.

### Steps:

1. **Gather requirements** \
   Define what data needs to be on your certificate and collect the certificate handlebars from form configuration. Our Farajaland examples have been designed based on UNCD recommendations.\
   \
   eg. Child’s date of birth | \{{eventDate\}}\

2. **Design your certificate!** \
   Use can use Noto Sans Light, Regular and Bold. Place dummy text for for where you would like handlebar data to appear and use a dummy signature image where you would like the digital signature to appear. \

3. **Export to SVG** \
   When you have finalised your design you need to export to SVG. Important! If your using Figma make sure to uncheck 'Outline text'\

4. **Add handlebars** \
   Open the SVG in a text editor tool such as Visual Studio Code. Replace the dummy text you added with the handlebar.\
   \
   Example: \
   `<text fill="#222222" xml:space="preserve" style="white-space: pre" font-family="Noto Sans-Bold" font-size="16" font-weight="bold" letter-spacing="0px"><tspan x="86.6699" y="444.268">{{eventDate}}&#10;</tspan></text>`\

5. **Upload and preview**\
   A National System Admin can now upload the certificate template. Preview the certificate to check that the correct data is loading as intended

### Farajaland certificates

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/oCRVS_Default_farajaland_birth.svg" %}

{% file src="../../.gitbook/assets/oCRVS_Default_farajaland_death.svg" %}
