# 3.3.7 Automated backup and restore / Optional external backups

{% hint style="warning" %}
As part of **OpenCRVS v1.2.0-beta (released December 2023),** we have changed the information on this page.  As a result these pages are being re-written/deprecated.  Please return in a few days for up to date content. &#x20;
{% endhint %}

### Backup process

Every day OpenCRVS automatically backs up all databases to the following directories on the manager node. Every 7 days the data is overwritten to save disk space.  The Ansible playbook sets this up as an option in this [step](3.3.2-install-dependencies.md).  If you configured a separate backup server and used the external backup server optional SSH properties in the Ansible script in step [3.3.2 Install dependencies](3.3.2-install-dependencies.md), these files are additionally backed up to that server in the middle of the night.  We recommend using a dedicated backup server in production.

We highly recommend that once a week, these files should be saved to a password protected and encrypted external harddrive and stored in a secure and approved location.

Hearth, OpenHIM and the other databases will be saved in mongo .gz zip files using the date of the backup here:

```
/data/backups/mongo/hearth-dev-<date>.gz
/data/backups/mongo/openhim-dev-<date>.gz
/data/backups/mongo/user-mgnt-<date>.gz
/data/backups/mongo/application-config-<date>.gz
```

Elasticsearch snapshot files and indices are saved here.  The entire folder is required for all snapshots regardless of the date:

```
/data/backups/elasticsearch
```

InfluxDB backup files are saved into a date named folder here:

```
/data/backups/influxdb/<date>
```



### Restore process

To perform a restore, ensure that you have backup files in the day's folders you wish to restore from.  If this is a new environment, you would need to copy the backed up files and folders into the locations using scp or rsync.  You should only restore to a clean installation of OpenCRVS.

Backup files:

All the Mongo backup zips you would like to restore from must exist in **/data/backups/mongo** folder named like this:

**hearth-dev-{date}.gz**

**openhim-dev-{date}.gz**

**user-mgnt-{date}.gz**&#x20;

**application-config-{date}.gz**&#x20;

The Elasticsearch backup folder **/data/backups/elasticsearch** must exist with all previous snapshots and indices.&#x20;

The InfluxDB backup files must exist in the **/data/backups/influxdb/{date}** folder

1. SSH into the manager node
2. Make sure you are a root user
3. cd to the /opt/opencrvs/infrastructure directory
4. Ensure that your database [secrets](3.3.6-deploy.md) are available as environment variables.  You can do this by running:

```
export ELASTICSEARCH_ADMIN_USER=elastic \
export ELASTICSEARCH_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<your elastic password> \
export MONGODB_ADMIN_USER=< your mongo username> \
export MONGODB_ADMIN_PASSWORD=<your mongo password>
```

5\. Run the following script as root but beware that **ALL DATA WILL BE REPLACED BY YOUR BACKUP DATA**

```
./emergency-restore-metadata.sh <day of the week to restore from> <number of server replicas: 1 3 or 5>
```

