# 3.3.3 Create Docker Secrets & provision an SMS gateway

#### Create Docker Secrets

Before the deployment can be done a few secrets need to be created in the **manager server node**. [Docker secrets](https://docs.docker.com/engine/swarm/secrets/) are used as a secure alternative to serving passwords without using .env files

Note: Using a strong password service such as [1Password](https://1password.com/) you should store the required passwords as you will need them regularly.



1\. ssh into the **manager server node** and prepare to run the following commands, replacing the values with the actual secrets:



2\. Running the following lines saves the login details to OpenHIM as Docker secrets. You will have created this password previously when populating database backups for your country configuration. The username will likely be the default: root@openhim.org

```
printf "<openhim-user>" | docker secret create openhim-user -
printf "<openhim-password>" | docker secret create openhim-password -
```



3\. The next steps and secrets store the choice of SMS provider and connection details.  Currently you can only choose between [Clickatell](https://www.clickatell.com/) and [Infobip](https://www.infobip.com/).  So you will need to create an account with one of these SMS providers.  In staging and qa environments, SMS messages are not delivered, so you can set any value you like.

Note: _In a future version of OpenCRVS, we intend to refactor out the entire notification microservice from core into the country configuration server so that you can choose any communication provider and method that you wish. If you would like to set up a different provider we would really appreciate it if you open a pull request._

a) In your country configuration look at the file [docker-compose.countryconfig.prod-deploy.yml](https://github.com/opencrvs/opencrvs-farajaland/blob/827cf1b519faff2399d57a65672482de63a803cc/docker-compose.countryconfig.prod-deploy.yml#L19) file. You will notice that environment variables are passed to the notification service from this compose file. Set the choice of provider in the SMS\_PROVIDER environment veriable. You can set the choice to be **clickatell** or **infobip**

```
- SMS_PROVIDER=infobip
```

b) Depending on your choice of provider, you need to set the following Docker secrets.  In staging and qa environments, SMS messages are not delivered, so you can set any value you like.  Just use the word "test" in that case.

```
# Clickatell option
printf "<clickatell-user>" | docker secret create clickatell-user -
printf "<clickatell-password>" | docker secret create clickatell-password -
printf "<clickatell-api-id>" | docker secret create clickatell-api-id -

# Infobip ooption
printf "<infobip-gateway-endpoint>" | docker secret create infobip-gateway-endpoint -
printf "<infobip-api-key>" | docker secret create infobip-api-key -
printf "<infobip-sender-id>" | docker secret create infobip-sender-id -
```



4\. After creating the secrets make sure the commands are removed from the shell history by running `history -c`

5\. In you country configuration repo, you need to set some environment variables in [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) files so that some OpenCRVS Core microservices understand which languages you have configured in [step 3.2.7 Set-up language content](../3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.6-set-up-multi-language-content.md). &#x20;

Plus, you need to provide the environment variables you set as Docker Secrets above based on your choice of SMS gateway to the notification service in Docker Compose for SMS use in production.

``

a) In VSCode, from your country configuration repo directory, open the file **docker-compose.countryconfig.staging-deploy.yml**

Replace all instances of the following comma separated [ISO 639-1](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List\_of\_ISO\_639-1\_codes) language codes for every translation you have set up in [step 3.2.7 Set-up language content ](../3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.6-set-up-multi-language-content.md).  You will notice these provided to the **notification**, **gateway** and **workflow** microservices.

```
- LANGUAGES=en,fr
```

b) In VSCode, from your country configuration repo directory, open the file **docker-compose.countryconfig.qa-deploy.yml**

Repeat the process of replacing the languages string in this file in the same locations.

c) In VSCode, from your country configuration repo directory, open the file **docker-compose.countryconfig.prod-deploy.yml**

Repeat the process of replacing the languages string in this file in the same locations.

In the notification microservice environment variables block, you must also edit other **environment and Docker Secret** variables depending on your choice of SMS provider.  You will see this block in our Farajaland example:

```
notification:
    environment:
      - SMS_PROVIDER=unknown
      - LANGUAGES=en,fr
```

SMS\_PROVIDER must be set to either "**infobip**" or "**clickatell**". &#x20;

You must add environment variable paths to access either set of Docker Secrets you set above depending on your provider. &#x20;

**So for Clickatell, the final notification service block would look like this:**

```
notification:
    environment:
      - SMS_PROVIDER=clickatell
      - CLICKATELL_USER_PATH=/run/secrets/clickatell-user
      - CLICKATELL_PASSWORD_PATH=/run/secrets/clickatell-password
      - CLICKATELL_API_ID_PATH=/run/secrets/clickatell-api-id
      - LANGUAGES=en,fr
```

**For Infobip, the final notification service block would look like this:**

```
notification:
    environment:
      - SMS_PROVIDER=infobip
      - INFOBIP_GATEWAY_ENDPOINT_PATH=/run/secrets/infobip-gateway-endpoint
      - INFOBIP_API_KEY_PATH=/run/secrets/infobip-api-key
      - INFOBIP_SENDER_ID_PATH=/run/secrets/infobip-sender-id
      - LANGUAGES=en,fr
```

At the bottom of **docker-compose.countryconfig.prod-deploy.yml** you will see a block **secrets** that looks like this:

```
secrets:
  jwt-public-key.{{ts}}:
    external: true
  openhim-user:
    external: true
  openhim-password:
    external: true
```

You must add Docker Compose access to the secrets here.

**So for Clickatell the final secrets block would look like this:**

```
secrets:
  clickatell-user:
    external: true
  clickatell-password:
    external: true
  clickatell-api-id:
    external: true
  jwt-public-key.{{ts}}:
    external: true
  openhim-user:
    external: true
  openhim-password:
    external: true
```

**For Infobip the final secrets block would look like this:**

```
secrets:
  infobip-gateway-endpoint:
    external: true
  infobip-api-key:
    external: true
  infobip-sender-id:
    external: true
  jwt-public-key.{{ts}}:
    external: true
  openhim-user:
    external: true
  openhim-password:
    external: true
```
