---
description: Short one line description of step
---

# 1. Establish team

OpenCRVS has been specifically designed to require minimal technical effort to setup and configure. The individuals who do so should however have the right knowledge and skills to be successful. These roles are defined below.

1. **Technical System Administrator:** in order to run OpenCRVS, this resource will need to have a working knowledge of Linux / Unix operating systems and be able to run terminal commands. OpenCRVS consists of multiple servers which run in Docker containers and requires Node JS. They should be familiar with the concepts of Docker and Node JS web application software development.
2. **Business Analyst / National System Administrator:** to configure application details, forms and vital event certificates, this resource will need to have strong business analysis skills, as well as be experienced in managing systems for enterprise level organisations.&#x20;

For countries where additional software development effort is required, we suggest building a team with the following skills. Note that the size of the team will depend on the scope of work and time available.&#x20;

1. **Designer:** a resource with UI and UX experience is required to translate business and system requirements into user interfaces and experiences that reflect their needs. The component library can be used to design pages with ease and consistently with the rest of the product.
2. **Scrum Master:** a qualified Scrum Master is needed to manage agile development of additional features and functionality in line with OpenCRVS standards.
3. **Full Stack Developers:** experienced full-stack developer with expertise and experience in using Linux or MacOS; Node JS (HapiJS or Express); React (or Vue) and state management; Typescript; Microservices; Continuous integration (Github Actions); Testing (Jest, Enzyme, Cypress); Microservice architecture; Agile / Scrum; MongoDB databases; Server side security principles; GIT; GraphQL; Web Performance Optimization; CI/CD; Test-Driven Development (TDD/BDD); Yarn package management; Docker / Docker Compose / Docker Swarm.
4. **Quality Assurance Engineer(s):** experienced QA engineers are critical to perform comprehensive testing in advance of implementation.&#x20;

For any questions about establishing a team to configure, further develop, or manage and maintain OpenCRVS effectively, get in touch at team@opencrvs.org.&#x20;







