---
description: Prepare all the inputs required for product configuration.
---

# 2. Gather requirements

In order to configure the OpenCRVS product, you will need a number of inputs. These requirements are listed below and templates provided where relevant. Gather these requirements in advance to make sure you have everything you need before you get started.&#x20;

### Checklist

*   [ ] **Rules and regulations for civil registration in your country**\
    These will be used to inform configuration parameters such as the legally stipulated timeframe to register a vital event, supporting document requirements etc. These will be configure in [4.1-configure-application-settings.md](4.-functional-configuration/4.1-configure-application-settings.md "mention")\


    {% hint style="info" %}
    **Note.** rules and regulations should help a country achieve universal civil registration, not get in the way. A comprehensive review of all CRVS rules and regulations should be conducted as part of analysis to inform effective digitised civil registration services - this may mean reform is required as part of a digital transformation programme.
    {% endhint %}

    ****
* [ ] **Administrative structure and areas**\
  ****This will be used ensure that the correct administrative structure is in place to enable registration workflows and effective reporting. Complete the CSV template provided in [3.2.2-set-up-administrative-address-divisions](3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.2-set-up-administrative-address-divisions/ "mention")\

*   [ ] **Statistical reference data**

    Population statistics and crude birth and death rates are required to be able to calculate completeness rates using accurate estimates of the number of vital events occurring. For increased accuracy these are required over time and by location.\
    This will be used to complete the CSV template provided in [3.2.2.2-prepare-source-file-for-district-level-statistics.md](3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.2-set-up-administrative-address-divisions/3.2.2.2-prepare-source-file-for-district-level-statistics.md "mention") \
    &#x20;
* [ ] **Registration office and health facilities**\
  This will be used to populate the product with reference data for these offices. Complete the CSV template provided in [3.2.3-set-up-cr-offices-and-health-facilities](3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.3-set-up-cr-offices-and-health-facilities/ "mention").\

* [ ] **Translation**\
  ****If you will offer the product in multiple languages, you need to translate the English copy into these languages in advance of configuration. Use the template in [3.2.7-set-up-language-content.md](3.-installation/3.2-set-up-your-own-country-configuration/3.2.7-set-up-language-content.md "mention").\

*   [ ] **Existing birth and death declaration forms**\
    ****You can configure your forms using the form builder in the product. See [4.3-configure-declaration-forms.md](4.-functional-configuration/4.3-configure-declaration-forms.md "mention") for instructions.\


    {% hint style="info" %}
    **Note.** digitising your CRVS system is an opportunity to improve on current practices. Review birth and death registration forms in advance of digitisation to ensure that you are (i) only capturing essential data (rather than asking for data that makes the process hard to complete), (ii) considering a rights-based approach to civil registration forms e.g. not including any data fields that may be exclusionary. [opencrvs-configuration-in-farajaland](../default-configuration/opencrvs-configuration-in-farajaland/ "mention")provides a great starting point to explore a standards and rights-based approach to vital event registration forms.
    {% endhint %}

    ****
*   [ ] **Existing vital event certificates**\
    &#x20;**** You can add your certificates by uploading an SVG file of the document. See [4.4-configure-a-certificate-template.md](4.-functional-configuration/4.4-configure-a-certificate-template.md "mention") for instructions.\


    {% hint style="info" %}
    **Note.** in using a digital system, you can re-design vital event certificates to look good and be fit for purpose. Don't just digitise a certificate that wasn't designed with design in mind.
    {% endhint %}


* [ ] **Government logo**\
  ****You can make the product look and feel like yours by uploading a logo to appear throughout the product. This is done as part of [4.1-configure-application-settings.md](4.-functional-configuration/4.1-configure-application-settings.md "mention")\

*   [ ] **Business process maps (as-is and to-be)**\
    ****Understanding the current challenges and how future processes (enabled by technology) can overcome these, is critical to a successful transformation of your civil registration services. These processes will inform which users do what in your country.\


    {% hint style="info" %}
    **Note.** using the CRVS Digitisation Guidebook ([http://www.crvs-dgb.org/en/](http://www.crvs-dgb.org/en/)) can help you conduct business process analysis as well as a number of other activities that effectively prepare for CRVS digitisation.
    {% endhint %}

