# 6. Go-live

{% hint style="success" %}
We recommend you make go-live as small and low-key as possible, with initially just a few users testing the application at selected test-sites. This gives you the possibility to provide feedback and adjust the solution before wider scale rollout.
{% endhint %}

This is a full readiness checklist that you can use prior to launching your solution and having it used for live vital event registration:

* **Office refurbishment**: are registration offices and staff properly equipped to be able to use the new application? Is there sufficient security to ensure that the equipment is safe? ****&#x20;
* **Training**: have the users been adequately trained, on the application but also on any new policies and processes?&#x20;
* **Change Management**: have the changes to processes and tools been properly communicated and are users ready to adopt the new application?
* **Public communication**: have the changes to vital event registration processes been properly communicated to the public so that they are aware of what to do?&#x20;
* **Data migration**: has legacy digital data been migrated to the new application? Have historical paper-based records been digitised and uploaded into the the new application?  &#x20;
* **Testing:** have all standard operating procedures been tested and proven to work as designed? Can the application support peak user load? Has the application and infrastructure passed cyber-security penetration tests?&#x20;
* **Service management:** is there a team that can handle support requests and respond to the common queries and issues? Is it clear to users how to contact the support team?
* **Application maintenance and support**: Are there support teams in place with the necessary SLAs to be able to support the service management team, including technical monitoring and maintenance of the application?
* **Rollout planning:** is there a rollout plan with sufficient resources to scaleup the use of the application nationwide? Are there checkpoints in place to help decide whether rollout should continue or should be paused?&#x20;
